# Danksharding

[Danksharding](https://notes.ethereum.org/@vbuterin/proto_danksharding_faq) is a recent Ethereum proposal to increase the scalability of their chain. As a stepping stone towards this goal a proto-danksharding proposal [EIP-4844](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4844) has been released. It includes a couple of linked proposals:
* The main plan is to include a new space in the blocks that will contain opaque data that will not be interpreted by the chain. This data won't be directly included in the chain, but rather referenced (or miners will acknowledge its existance/release). The miners will just have to validate the availability of the data through some erasure coding + data sampling techniques. This space will be used/interpreted by rollup systems that can implement their own logic. In the proto-danksharding, all validators and users still have to directly validate the availability of the full data.
* The second big thing is the [proposer builder seperation (PBS)](https://notes.ethereum.org/s3JToeApTx6CKLJt8AbhFQ#Solution-2-can-we-still-use-proposers-%E2%80%9Chybrid-PBS%E2%80%9D-but-only-for-inclusion-of-last-resort). Since a while, Ethereum suffers from frontrunners that cause two negative effects: 1) miners can extract MEV at the cost of the users 2) frontrunners outbid each other clogging the network and pushing transaction fees higher. Interestingly, Ethereum seems to embrace 1) presenting it as an additional source of revenue to miners that will compensate the revenue drop cause by [EIP-1559](http://timroughgarden.org/papers/eip1559.pdf). Introducing PBS is mostly targeted to solve 2). In a nutshell, the blocks will be now constructed by builders, that will first just advertise the block header + their bids for inclusion of the blocks in the chain. The blocks will be picked by proposers, who first pick a block header (based on the best bid) without knowing its content. Once a block is picked, the builder will release a block. A lot of work is being done now to make this scheme cencorship resistant.


## How does it related to us?

* We can argue that our scheme is much better protected from frontrunning. With the mailbox approach, an chain owner can still do cange the order of incoming transactions, but 1) the owner can now be held accountable 2) we're thinking about timestamp-based designs to make it difficult
* We might consider in the future whether some kind of rollups/off-chain data can be useful in our case. 